# CodeByPlaying
Setup
1. In the Android project, replace the value in the string named ipv4 in the res/values/strings file with your own ipv4 value.
2. Replace the host value in the app.py file in the service folder with your own ipv4 address.

# 2019-2020 Spring Semester School Project
The Project Summary

Today, with the development of technology, the software industry has gained great importance. However, especially since artificial intelligence and machine learning topics are used to facilitate daily life, they have started to attract attention and have caused a lack of qualified personnel in this context. In order to prevent such situations and to introduce and educate the society about both software projects and special parts such as machine learning, initiatives aimed at children are in the majority. These are generally in the form of education and information. The project we have realized and similar ones is to create an educational game platform that can be used for children who have access to the internet and spend this access on activities such as playing games. For this purpose, machine learning was emphasized as a subject. The project was carried out on a mobile platform with a simple structure suitable for the use of children, in which there are ten different games. First of all, it was aimed for children to see themselves as the person who built the game they will play, and a code block was actively built by the user with simple code examples. In the following, the pages of the games that are shown to work with the code blocks they have built are included. In this context, the user will both feel a part of the project and have ideas and knowledge about machine learning...


Most of the software education programs and content available today are built according to the understanding capacity of adults or individuals with a bachelor's degree. However, the age range in which an individual's interest and comprehension skills, especially imagination, is most developed is mostly between the ages of 10 and 15. At the same time, today, a large proportion of individuals in this age range have internet access and their general interests are recorded as games. Considering these two situations, it is aimed to provide the opportunity to meet the coding and software fields for this age range, starting from the idea ofcoding and meeting the software field in a way that will respond to the wishes of individuals to play games by building a platform with game content that appeals to this age range. In this context, the subject of machine learning has been handled under the title of artificial intelligence in terms of both being more interesting and the way the developing technology progresses. The platform is designed as a mobile application for easy access. In this way, it is aimed to keep the access area wider. Considering the age range, it has been tried to give individuals the feeling that they are building the games they play in a more visual and automated way, and in this way, it is aimed to increase their desire to learn by increasing their curiosity level. To summarize in general terms, a mobile application with game content designed to teach individuals aged 10-15 years about coding and operations on the subject of machine learning is aimed.

Looking at the literature, there are some structures created to teach children software and coding. The most prominent of these is the scratch visual programming language. At the same time, the service of trading on a web platform is offered. It is the biggest attempt created and used to instill coding skills and logic in children through visuals.[1] In the mobile application we created, we have used a scratch-like structure by building it with our own methods and skills. Another example is the web platform published as machine learning for kids. On this platform, the sample games have been released and put into use. The biggest determinant difference between it and Scratch is that it is more difficult for children to process individually as compared to the scratch platform. It is mostly aimed at individuals with sufficient knowledge who want to teach children on this subject.[2] In the mobile application we created, we were inspired by the games in this platform and used information about the process steps. If we look at the application we have created, it can be considered as a structure that is more individual-oriented and the ease of use is kept at the minimum level compared to the applications available in the literature.

Turkey is a mobile application created in order to draw back the age range of coding and programming trainings, which are still at the beginner level.
The system to be developed is considered as a mobile application that can be downloaded from mobile stores. Since it is an application that can be used by individuals between the ages of 10-15 by using machine learning algorithms, it has a permanent contribution to the literature. It is a project that will enable the development of coding and programming logic, which they can use as if they are building algorithms in their new generation mentalities. In addition, it presents the operations with visuals so that the age group can understand it better and keep it in their memories for a long time, and it has been revealed as a more effective application. We provide ease of use by increasing the interest of individuals with interface designs that aim to be simple and plain, humorous and surprising for individuals who are just learning the concept of artificial intelligence.
The features of the mobile application to be developed are listed below.
•	Mobile construction for easy access.
•	Repetition to individuals as if they were building machine learning codes themselves.
•	Addressing children as age range.
•	The ability of individuals to access and use individually without the need for an educator for the use phase.
•	Providing an original working system by providing flask connection with REST service structure.
•	The fact that the information in the games can be changed and managed.
•	Providing an extensible dataset environment with service connection.


Apart from the main technologies shown below, technologies such as JS and XML will be used for the system to be developed.
•	Android
•	OpenCV
•	Phyton
•	Java
•	Web Services
•	SQLLite
•	Machine Learning Algorithms


Software Components:
Java language is used for the backend part of the application built on the Android platform. XML-based design pages have been built within the project and each page has been linked with a specific java file. SQLLite is used as database. Only records of user specific information are kept. There are ten games created on the subject of machine learning in the project. In games, there is processing on text and visual processing using machine learning. The user will first determine the game they want to play; then he will build the game according to his own knowledge and if he is successful he will be able to play the game. In this context, the processes and designs are built in an interesting but simple way, considering the age range. The results of the operation, which were made within the machine learning algorithms created independently for the project, were recorded as a file with a .pkl extension and used to process in the flask. In the Android part, the data to be sent as input to the machine learning algorithm is assigned as a string and communication with the flask module is ensured using the REST service architecture. The current communication is over the local network and in future versions it has a portable infrastructure on the network. The communication and data paths are shown in the flow diagram below.

Scope and Use of the Project:
If you target individuals between the ages of 10-15 in terms of the target audience, the project is in a way that can appeal to all segments in terms of scope. International status can be obtained if language support is added. In terms of usage, there are three basic parts as a process. First of all, after the download, the user must register through the program and log in with the correct information. Afterwards, he should determine the code he wanted to create by choosing a game from the menu section containing ten games. The part expected from the user in the game code construction is simple operations such as creating the machine learning algorithm and introducing the input values, and it is ensured that the user can examine the original codes at the same time. For the user who has successfully built the code block, it is up to the game to play. The game continues until the user exits the page, but it is expected to regenerate the code blocks in case of exit.